			  Questionnaire for

		 Harvard Extension School CSCI E-95:
		  Compiler Design and Implementation

			     Spring 2015


Name: Shashank Kalmane		Work phone number:


E-mail: skalmane@outlook.com	Home phone number: 979-229-5733


Occupation: Software Developer

	If you're a full-time student, what is your department, field, and
	    year and at which school?  Are you currently in a degree program?


Have you taken CSCI E-10a (Formerly E-50a), CSCI E-10b (Formerly E-50b),
CSCI E-50 (Formerly E-52), and/or CSCI E-28 (Unix Systems Programming)
(Formerly CSCI E-215) or equivalents (specify which)? No


Have you taken CSCI E-22 (Data Structures) (Formerly CSCI E-119)?

	If not, how do you meet the prerequisite?
	I have had multiple computer science courses, including Algorithms and Data Structures, during my undergraduate degree. 

Have you taken CSCI E-124 (Data Structures and Algorithms)?

	If not, how do you meet the prerequisite?
	I have had multiple computer science courses, including Algorithms and Data Structures, during my undergraduate degree.
	
Are you already registered for this class?  -- If not, do you intend
to register? Yes, I am already registered for the class


What additional appropriate course or work experience do you have?
	I am a Software Developer who's worked in the field for the past 3 years. I have also taken CSCI E-93 the previous semester which already had extensive programming assignments.

What is your math background?
     I have completed my Master of Science degree in Electrical Engineering where I have had exposure to various Math courses, including, but not limited to, Linear Algebra, Probability and Statistics etc

What computer languages do you know (please include assembler and
high-level languages)?
	   C, C++, Java, Python

What operating systems have you used?
     Windows, Linux

What computers have you used?
     

Why are you taking the course?
    As I mentioned above, my education has been primarily in Electrical Engineering while my field of work is in Computer Science. While I have been trying to catch up on the field, I believe that a grounding in something as fundamental as Compiler Technology will really help me understand Computers a lot better and will not only help me a lot in my daily work, but will also provide me a great foundation to pick up other concepts in Computer Science.

If the class needs to be rescheduled, is Thursday evening acceptable?
   Yes

Other comments (please continue on the back):
